Often the first thing done in a Node and Express environment is to create
a simple local server that will allow an app to run locally in a browser.
A server receives requests,
processes those requests and then returns a response.
For our purposes, we'll be using a server to run
our website locally without any FTP servers or
other hosting solutions and to create routes to
dynamically pass data between different parts of our apps.
Now, let's take a look at the code we would use to actually write this server.
So the first thing we want to do is to set our variables.
So here we set our variable to port 8000.
You can look more into ports,
but 8000 is popular, 3000, 3030, 8080.
You could be creative with your naming.
The next thing we do is we set
a variable named server and then we pass the listen method, two arguments.
The first argument is the port which we set up here.
This will tell us our server which port to run
on and you'll actually go to that address in the web browser.
The second argument is a callback functioning which we have named listening.
So when our code runs,
server will start listening at port 8000,
and then we'll run the function listening.
Here, we see that function listening will log out,
the server is running and it will tell us where it's running on which port.
Let's take a look at that.